README.md, before:

# Web Accessibility in JavaScript Apps

_The web is awesome and everyone should be able to enjoy it._

Hi there! I'm [Sandrina Pereira](https://twitter.com/a_sandrina_p) and I believe that making the web accessible is our duty as web creators.

---

## Pre-Workshop requirements

To get the most out of the workshop, please do the following things in advance.

- **Install Chrome or Firefox.** I'll be using Chrome most of the time.
- **Setup the project** prior to the workshop to avoid unexpected installation issues.
- **Install the browser extensions** that we will use during the workshop.
- **Familiarize yourself with the basics of a SR (screen reader)**. Read below for further practical guidance.
- **Bring ear/headphones** to use the Screen Reader in the workshop room.

The better prepared you are for the workshop, the more you will learn from it!

## Feedback

💭 At the end of the workshop, I highly appreacite your [anonymous feedback](https://forms.gle/eYjSyYCLSuh5Qzyn7).

---

## Setup the workshop

### Locally

Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/).

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/sandrina-p/workshop-a11y-react-alicante

# Go to workshop folder
cd workshop-a11y-react-alicante

# Install the dependencies
npm install

# Run the project
npm start
```

---

## Browser extensions

We'll explore some browser extensions:

The ones below we'll use frequently:

- [Accessibility Insights for Web](https://accessibilityinsights.io/en/downloads/) - Chrome only
- [Axe Developer Tools](https://www.deque.com/axe/browser-extensions/) - Chrome or Firefox. This is the alternative, but the extension above is more complete.

At some point, we'll might also use the following:

- [Colour contrast checker](https://colourcontrast.cc/) - Chrome only
- [HeadingsMap](https://rumoroso.bitbucket.io/) - Chrome or Firefox

## Screen Readers

We'll explore SR (Screen Reader), however during a remote workshop it's not practical to teach everyone how to use a SR. Here's some friendly video tutorials for you to practice in the meantime:

- Mac: You'll use VO (Voice Over) [Watch VO introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5R-6WvAihms&t=198s).
- Windows: Install [NVDA](https://www.nvaccess.org/) and [watch NVDA introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jao3s_CwdRU).
- Linux: Install [Orca](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/Orca) and [watch Orca introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8OWSztc3AtY).

My favorite cheatsheet of keyboard shortcuts:

- [VO and NVDA cheatsheet](https://dequeuniversity.com/screenreaders/survival-guide)
- [Orca cheatsheet](https://help.gnome.org/users/orca/stable/commands_controlling_orca.html.en).

I encourage you to [practice with this playground](https://sgwvk.csb.app/).

**Tip:** While the SR is speaking, press `Control` key to force it to stop reading it. This might help you to reduce the annoying/frustration feeling while exploring it.

**MacOS Tip:** Go to Settings > Accessibility > Voice Over Utility > Web > General. Uncheck "Automatically speak the webpage".

Good luck 🤞

---

## License

This project is available for private, non-commercial use under the BSD 3-Clause License.

The workshop exercises are proprietary and are licensed on a per-individual basis,
usually as a result of purchasing a ticket to a workshop, or being a participant
in a private training.

Here are some guidelines for things that are **OK** and **Not OK** based on this license:

#### OK

- Using everything in this project other than the briefings and exercises
  to build a project used for your own free or commercial training material;
- Copying code from build scripts, configuration files, tests and development
  harnesses that are not part of the exercises specifically, for your own projects;
- As an owner of an individual license, using code from tests, exercises, or
  exercise solutions for your own non-training-related project.

#### Not OK (without express written consent)

- Using this project, or any subset of exercises contained within this project to run your own workshops;
- Writing a book that uses the code from these exercises;
- Recording a screencast that contains one or more of this project's exercises.

## Copyright

&copy; 2022 [Sandrina Pereira](https://www.sandrina-p.net/), All Rights Reserved, under [BSD 3-Clause License](LICENSE.txt).

**This material cannot be used for workshops, training, or any other form of instructing or teaching, without express written consent.**

Commit message:

fix readme - run project script

README.md, after:

# Web Accessibility in JavaScript Apps

_The web is awesome and everyone should be able to enjoy it._

Hi there! I'm [Sandrina Pereira](https://twitter.com/a_sandrina_p) and I believe that making the web accessible is our duty as web creators.

---

## Pre-Workshop requirements

To get the most out of the workshop, please do the following things in advance.

- **Install Chrome or Firefox.** I'll be using Chrome most of the time.
- **Setup the project** prior to the workshop to avoid unexpected installation issues.
- **Install the browser extensions** that we will use during the workshop.
- **Familiarize yourself with the basics of a SR (screen reader)**. Read below for further practical guidance.
- **Bring ear/headphones** to use the Screen Reader in the workshop room.

The better prepared you are for the workshop, the more you will learn from it!

## Feedback

💭 At the end of the workshop, I highly appreacite your [anonymous feedback](https://forms.gle/eYjSyYCLSuh5Qzyn7).

---

## Setup the workshop

### Locally

Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/).

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/sandrina-p/workshop-a11y-react-alicante

# Go to workshop folder
cd workshop-a11y-react-alicante

# Install the dependencies
npm install

# Run the project
npm run dev
```

You should see the project opening in a new localhost tab.

---

## Browser extensions

We'll explore some browser extensions:

The ones below we'll use frequently:

- [Accessibility Insights for Web](https://accessibilityinsights.io/en/downloads/) - Chrome only
- [Axe Developer Tools](https://www.deque.com/axe/browser-extensions/) - Chrome or Firefox. This is the alternative, but the extension above is more complete.

At some point, we'll might also use the following:

- [Colour contrast checker](https://colourcontrast.cc/) - Chrome only
- [HeadingsMap](https://rumoroso.bitbucket.io/) - Chrome or Firefox

## Screen Readers

We'll explore SR (Screen Reader), however during a remote workshop it's not practical to teach everyone how to use a SR. Here's some friendly video tutorials for you to practice in the meantime:

- Mac: You'll use VO (Voice Over) [Watch VO introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5R-6WvAihms&t=198s).
- Windows: Install [NVDA](https://www.nvaccess.org/) and [watch NVDA introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jao3s_CwdRU).
- Linux: Install [Orca](https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/Orca) and [watch Orca introduction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8OWSztc3AtY).

My favorite cheatsheet of keyboard shortcuts:

- [VO and NVDA cheatsheet](https://dequeuniversity.com/screenreaders/survival-guide)
- [Orca cheatsheet](https://help.gnome.org/users/orca/stable/commands_controlling_orca.html.en).

I encourage you to [practice with this playground](https://sgwvk.csb.app/).

**Tip:** While the SR is speaking, press `Control` key to force it to stop reading it. This might help you to reduce the annoying/frustration feeling while exploring it.

**MacOS Tip:** Go to Settings > Accessibility > Voice Over Utility > Web > General. Uncheck "Automatically speak the webpage".

Good luck 🤞

---

## License

This project is available for private, non-commercial use under the BSD 3-Clause License.

The workshop exercises are proprietary and are licensed on a per-individual basis,
usually as a result of purchasing a ticket to a workshop, or being a participant
in a private training.

Here are some guidelines for things that are **OK** and **Not OK** based on this license:

#### OK

- Using everything in this project other than the briefings and exercises
  to build a project used for your own free or commercial training material;
- Copying code from build scripts, configuration files, tests and development
  harnesses that are not part of the exercises specifically, for your own projects;
- As an owner of an individual license, using code from tests, exercises, or
  exercise solutions for your own non-training-related project.

#### Not OK (without express written consent)

- Using this project, or any subset of exercises contained within this project to run your own workshops;
- Writing a book that uses the code from these exercises;
- Recording a screencast that contains one or more of this project's exercises.

## Copyright

&copy; 2022 [Sandrina Pereira](https://www.sandrina-p.net/), All Rights Reserved, under [BSD 3-Clause License](LICENSE.txt).

**This material cannot be used for workshops, training, or any other form of instructing or teaching, without express written consent.**
